# QuizFiend

QuizFiend is a  application for user-friendly personality quizzes. The UI is built with React.js, and the quizzes are dynamically generated by loading a set of questions and answers from a REST API into the UI using HTTP requests. This format allows for the creation of additional quizzes with minimal typing; simply add the questions and answers to the .json file, and an interatictive quiz will be displayed in the UI. 

## Installation and Setup

First make sure you have npm installed [see here](https://docs.npmjs.com/downloading-and-installing-node-js-and-npm). Then fork and clone this project into your local environment. Navigate to the project folder in the command line, and run `npm install`, which will install the dependencies listed in the package.json file.  

One of these dependencies is [https://github.com/typicode/json-server](json-server), a mock back-end. This will automaically be installed when you run `npm install`. You can start the server up by entering `npm run server` into the command line. Open a second terminal window, navigate to the project, and enter `npm start` to open the app in your browser. Now it's ready for you to use and modify! 

## Modifying

Feel free to fork this project and create your own quiz app for commercial or non-commercial use. Please provide attribution "By Christy Perozzi" and a link to this repository [https://github.com/ceptember/project2](https://github.com/ceptember/project2) on anything you publish. 

## How to create your own quiz

The questions, options, and results that make up each quiz are stored in the file db.json. Below is a simple example of a quiz using two questions, with two options for each, and two possible results, but you may use more than two of each of these. The only constraints are that the number of options must be the same for each question, and the number of possible results must be the same as the number of options. There is no constraint to the number of questions; you may choose to include as many as you'd like. 

```
{
      "id": 1,
      "title": "Title",
      "image": "url of featured image",
      "imagecredit": " unsplash user name of photographer",
      "questions": [
        {
          "question": "Question One?",
          "answers": [
            "Choice A",
            "Choice B" 
          ]
        },
        {
          "question": "Question Two?",
          "answers": [
            "Choice A",
            "Choice B" 
          ]
        },
        
      ],
      "results": [
        {
          "result": "Result A",
          "text": "description of result",
          "image": " image url",
          "credit": "Unsplash user name of photographer"
        },
        {
          "result": "Result B",
          "text": "description of result",
          "image": " image url",
          "credit": "Unsplash user name of photographer"
        }
```

The quizzes are fetchded from this file with an HTTP GET request, and passed into the UI. Each option for each question has an `onClick` event listener that calls a function `keepScore`, which updated the score. The score is held in an object stored in state, in which the keys are the indeces of the options that have been seleced and the values are the number of times an option with that index has been selected. Here's an example to illustrate this:

Question 1. Pick one: (A) B C
Question 2. Pick one: (A) B C
Question 3. Pick one: A (B) C

The option in (parentheses) represents the choice that the user selected. So in this case, the score would be 
{0: 2,
1: 1}

For the first two questions, the user selected the choice in index 0. In the last question, the user selected the choice in index 1. 

At the end of the quiz, the final result is the one in the index with the most points. So the order of the options and the results is *VERY IMPORTANT*, because that's how the result is calculated. 

So in the above example, the `results` array would have to be in the right order: [Result A, Result B, Result C]. 

Since the user selected mostly "A" (index 0) answers, their result will be Result A (index 0 in the results array). That's it! You can follow this pattern to build any type of quiz you'd like!  
        
## Resources

This project was built using [React](https://reactjs.org/), a JavaScript library for building user interfaces and bootstrapped with [Create React App](https://github.com/facebook/create-react-app). Client-side routing was completed with [React Router](https://reactrouter.com/). Photos used in the app are from [https://unsplash.com/](https://unsplash.com/), with attribution givin to the individual photographers wherever each image appears. 

 